Shared investments is some kind of the law that i am thinking of.
First  i think that investments in intelectual proeprty must be limited and this limit can be linked with the progressive taxes so if maximum of 10mln is for 35% then maximum of 35% but no more then 10mln can be involved in taxfree investments. So it's about not taking too much to intellectual property but measure it much more carefully and this is what should be linked with patent system probably, so less tax you pay - less time your patent authority will be yours and be taken by government for example, so if patent right disappear in 20yrs for some kind of intellectual property right now, then in new way it will disappear in 20yrs with current tax rate +20%, will right now there is a patent system so it should be used somehow, but if you pay tax rate+30% then it will be 25yrs and if you pay just current rate it will be only 10years and after 5-7 years government will have the opportunity to take the patent (buyback).
so different spheres of intellectual property can be reevaluated so the tax rate can be different depending on it too.
i will continue in time just give you the idea so you can comment it out too.
But as for shared investments this can be government+ sharing, so residents who share their investments with gov can take some tax facilities and government can be acknowledged that these money will be for some positions that budget of the country has needs in. it is very social riscking - maybe, it should be regulated well.
and as for progressive tax i would made it more progressive so the 10mln is not really the endline it should be raised up till 500mlns - that's more interesting and scaling, so for the residents with income of more than 100mlns there should be built a comitee that will discuss with them their investments for government needs or to deal the tax percentage exclusively, knowing their plans as investors - i believe this is what they do in france by building the new commitee.
this was the ability of give some more opportunity in take a chance of use experience of those who knows some way of earn money - the legal way, so they can reinvest in their own area, but they can have the other opportunities that government can give them actually, because their minds are set for exchange mostly so they need to see how their money works, need to see the result of it - it is neccessary.
so it tax raising shouldn't be taken by civilians with income rate of less than 100000 year or it is about 3-5% for them depending on income rates in your country this can be about +10% so the income of less than 30000 is about 2-3%.
So for some time government will share their needs with companies that will take support direction and will invest the budget of this direction, so they will be interested but pretty much isolated in influence, they will be able to discuss the direction and give their opinions on a better way but the gov will decide on it - what to do.
i'm not really familiar with the system all i saw is 35% for 10mlns and of course i don't know the real program that was discussed.
and of course this is not he endpoint that no way you can move from - it is just a point of view, maybe it is different - maybe not, but you can think about it and decide if you like it and then do it better.

Also shared investments means that the company cannot invest tax free  into coworkers - investments must be sent into the other productions, if investor is from intellectual property he will invest into real production (food, pharma) and if it was producing he will invest into enginnering or education - balancing economics of different speres or social ways, classes 0 well that what i was thinking of.